---
title: Reflection
layout: page
---

My media autobiography “Rise of a Videogame Zinester” ends roughly around the time I started building the works in this portfolio. This StoryMap outlines my life-long influences as a writer, designer, technologist, and retrospectively analyzes each entry using the critical theory and media history I learned throughout my undergraduate studies. Its title comes from the writing of Anna Anthropy, an indie game developer who I learned about during Dr. Parham's digital storytelling class. Anthropy argues that indie games do for the game industry what zines do for the publishing industry: they democratize the means of production and bring more marginalized voices onto the scene. I approached my work in the Digital Storytelling minor as a zinester in the 21st century: informed by both a subversive underground print history and the dynamic affordances of digital media.

My critical essay on performance in *Kentucky Route Zero* synthesizes my creative influences with the history of computing and electronic literature we covered in Dr. Moro’s class. While we learned about early hypertext and interactive fiction works and the affordances of the machines they were built on, I was checking out punk shows and reading event scores from Fluxus happenings. I was intrigued by *Kentucky Route Zero*’s text-based representation of live performance and interested in the parallels between gameplay and performance. Using what I learned about hypertext, interactive fiction, and media-specific analysis, I explored both the electronic and embodied influences of *Kentucky Route Zero* in my essay.

During the same course I encountered Mattel’s VR View-Master in MITH’s holdings. I was delighted by the toy headset and surprised that despite three years working with VR in the Immersive Media Design major, I had never seen it before. I decided to research the Mattel View-Master and its analog precedents for my stack report and discuss its role in conjunction with the Google Cardboard in democratizing VR. I presented my research and commentary in another StoryMap, expanding upon in-class workshops from Professor Sapeinza’s class and experimenting with an immersive side-scroll format inspired by “scrollytelling” pieces on digital journalism sites.

I brought my engagement with non-fictional digital storytelling to Professor Inbar’s collaborative studio course, where I showed my team *Welcome to Pine Point* as inspiration for our final project. I first learned about *Pine Point* in Professor Sapienza's class, and its meshing of print and digital aesthetics and its use of archival media to evoke the passing of time resonated strongly with our own vision for a tribute to Campus Village Shoppes. *8135 Baltimore Avenue* was an endeavor of investigation by making, research by remix to blur the lines between memory, reality, and speculation. Throughout production, we transformed street interviews, site-specific documentation, and social media content with voice acting, photo editing, and even AI. I was constantly reckoning with the ethics of curating stories that aren't my own using digital mediums. This project synthesized discussion points from many of my DSP classes, from remediation to memory to found media.

*PLEASE UNPLUG THIS INSTALLATION WHEN NOT IN USE* is the oldest piece in my portfolio, created during Fall 2023 for Dr. Farman’s digital media theory course, and is the only piece I completed before writing the media autobiography. This installation responds to conversations about sustainability in the art world, sparked by the energy-intensive processes of minting NFTs and training AI models that are trending in the new media space. While AI grows more powerful and pervasive than it had ever been in my life, so does misinformation. My proposal for *PLEASE UNPLUG…* outlines an embodied, interactive experience to combat this misinformation. Recently I received notice that I have been accepted into Immersive Media Design's New Works Incubator, where I will bring this proposal to life.

My goal in enrolling in the Digital Storytelling and Poetics minor was to learn more about digital humanities research and concentrate my technical skills towards literary and journalistic experiences. Digital media provides almost endless possibilities in how to present knowledge: as plan prose, as hypertext, as video, as tactile installation. Studying archives and electronic literature as part of this minor has made me more intentional with my use of media based on what I want to express. The media history and critical theory I learned this semester has become foundational to my identity and ethos as a new media artist and aspiring digital humanist.